Update run blockchain index page  in lisk docs (#1712)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/run-blockchain/index.adoc

:url_wiki_ipc: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inter-process_communication
:url_websocket: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSocket
:url_wiki_http_protocol: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol

// :url_p2p: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-docs/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/modules/_liskhq_lisk_p2p.html
// TODO: The older P2P link above was pointing to SDKv5, and it is now updated and commented out at the moment, as it is linked to a later version of Typedocs for Lisk elements/P2P. So once the beta version is rolled out we can uncomment this link above.

The "Run Blockchain" section contains all the guides concerning the management of a Lisk node and is therefore especially interesting for validators and other Lisk node operators.

== What is a blockchain node?

A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain client, such as xref:{url_core}[].
Nodes are usually connected to other nodes running the same client via P2P.
// TODO: (See above comment on P2P) - Add in P2P link {url_p2p}[P2P^].
Together, they form the network that is maintaining the blockchain.

Depending on the node configuration, a node can have different roles in the network.

> The two most important roles are <<RPC enabled nodes>> and <<Validator nodes>>, illustrated in the diagram below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two most important roles are <<RPC enabled nodes>> and <<Validator nodes>>, as illustrated in the diagram below:
```

.Various node types of a blockchain network

> image::run-blockchain/node-service-network.png[Node network, 800]

Reviewer: The border for the legend: "Ext" is gray, which should be pink.

> == RPC enabled nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== RPC-enabled nodes
```

Author: @TalhaMaliktz I did have this as RPC-enabled nodes originally, although Mona suggested to change it to RPC enabled nodes.

Reviewer: RPC and enabled should be read as compound modifiers, hence the hyphen.

Author: OK, yes, fair point...I will now update it 👍

// === Protecting non-validator nodes

// Opening a node's API to the public exposes the node to certain attacks, and it is recommended to protect the node accordingly, in order to ensure the node keeps running stable.

// For more information, see the guide xref:{url_run_protection}[].

If the RPC API of a node is enabled, it allows external services to send queries to the node and/or to subscribe to specific events that are happening in the network.
For example, these external services could be other scripts in JS, a Python daemon, or a tool in Rust.
Depending on the node configuration, an RPC-enabled node can accept different communication protocols such as {url_wiki_http_protocol}[Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)^], {url_websocket}[WebSocket (WS)^], and  {url_wiki_ipc}[Inter-Process Communication (IPC)^].

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For more information, see the following:
```

* *Supported communication protocols*: xref:{url_communication_protocol}[].
* *RPC endpoints*: xref:{url_understand_endpoints}[].
// * *HTTP API*: xref:{url_sdk_plugin_http}[]

== Validator nodes

//TODO: Add link to Lisk PoS explanation, once it is available
In the Lisk xref:{url_pos}[PoS], a certain set of validators is selected by the network to add new blocks to the blockchain.
To participate in the block generation process, a validator needs to set up a node and configure it to enable block generation.
These nodes are called *validator nodes*.

> In the Lisk Mainnet, exactly 103 validators exist in the network for each block generation round.

Reviewer: @Tschakki isn't the 103 validator thing true for sidechain as well?

Reviewer 2: It is true for the default value in a newly initialized sidechain, but this can be configured differently by the sidechian developer :)

Author: @TalhaMaliktz @Tschakki  If i understand correctly, the number of validators on a sidechain can differ from the number of validators on the mainchain..However, perhaps we should we reword this line to the something like the following..?
"In the Lisk blockchain, there is a maximum number of 103 validators that can exist in the network for each block generation round".
Thoughts...?

Reviewer: For mainnet the 103 number isn't configurable?

Reviewer: If the mainnet 103 number isn't configurable then the current sentence is correct in my opinion. If both mainnet and sidechain are configurable then I guess we can use **Lisk Blockchain** instead of **Lisk Mainnet**.

Reviewer 2: The number of validators is not configurable by a single node operator in a running network liek the Mainnet. Doing so would require a hardfork in the network. So this value can be considered as a constant in the current mainnet.

Author: OK cool. Then we will leave it as it is, Many thanks 👍

//  URLs
:url_github_lisk_service: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service
:url_staking_guide: https://lisk.com/learn/guides/stake-lsk-tokens
// :url_p2p: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-docs/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/modules/_liskhq_lisk_p2p.html
// TODO: The older P2P link above was pointing to SDKv5, and it is now updated and commented out at the moment, as it is linked to a later version of Typedocs for Lisk elements/P2P. So once the beta version is rolled out we can uncomment this link above.

The "Run Blockchain" section contains all the guides concerning the management of a Lisk node and is therefore especially interesting for validators and other Lisk node operators.

== What is a blockchain node?

A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain client, such as xref:{url_core}[].
Nodes are usually connected to other nodes running the same client via P2P.
// TODO: (See above comment on P2P) - Add in P2P link {url_p2p}[P2P^].
Together, they form the network that is maintaining the blockchain.

.Various node types of a blockchain network
image::run-blockchain/node-service-network.png[Node network, 800]

> == Nodes

Author: Good point. I have now updated both the diagram and also the content below, so it now pertains more to the diagram.

:url_core_setup_source: {docs_core}setup/source.adoc
:url_glossary_selfstake: glossary.adoc#self-stake
:url_glossary_validatorweight: glossary.adoc#validator-weight

> :url_protocol_voting: understand-blockchain/lisk-protocol/consensus-algorithm.adoc#delegates-voting_and-delegates-weight

Reviewer 2: This link is outdated

:url_unstake: run-blockchain/staking.adoc#un-staking
:url_github_lisk_service: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service
:url_lisk_commander: lisk-sdk::references/lisk-commander/index.adoc
:url_enabling_misbehavior: run-blockchain/enabling-misbehavior-report.adoc
:url_account: run-blockchain/account-management

// TODO: Create a new section about enabling block generation.
// TODO: Uncomment the text once updated docs are available.

// The page should include links to the newly created guides about validators, staking and block generation.
// The terminology about nodes should get less confusing:
// blockchain nodes
// validator nodes
// rpc nodes
// lisk service nodes
// Nodes with block generation disabled should be called "Non-validator nodes"
// Diagram needs to be updated accordingly, non-validator nodes should be removed
// RPC nodes should be defined, in the description of the diagram, too.

The "Run Blockchain" section contains all the guides concerning the management of a Lisk node and is therefore especially interesting for validators and other Lisk node operators.

== What is a blockchain node?

> A xref:{url_run_blockchain}[blockchain node] is a server with a running blockchain client, such as xref:{url_core}[].

Reviewer 2: this link is broken

Author: Ah yes, thanks Mona, this link is not actually required here so it has been removed 👍

> Nodes are usually connected to other nodes running the same client via xref:{url_p2p}[P2P].

Reviewer 2: this link is going to SDKv5 docs

Author: Good point...This was going to the older version...It is now commented out, and the tentative link is pointing to a newer version of Typedocs for the Lisk/elements/P2P reference. So after the beta version is rolled out, we can uncomment this link.

Author: Good point...The older P2P link was pointing to SDKv5, and it is now updated (and commented out at the moment),as it is linked to a later version of Typedocs for Lisk elements/P2P. So if you agree, once the beta version is rolled out we can uncomment and check the updated link.

> If the RPC API of a node is enabled, it allows external services to send queries to the node and/or to subscribe to specific events that are happening in the network.

Author: Done 👍

Depending on the node configuration, an RPC-enabled node can accept different communication protocols like HTTP, WS, and IPC.

* *Supported communication protocols*: xref:{url_communication_protocol}[].

> // * *RPC endpoints*: xref:{url_understand_endpoints}[]

Reviewer 2: This can refer to here: https://liskhq.github.io/lisk-docs/beta/api/lisk-node-rpc.html

Author: Done 👍

// // * *HTTP API*: xref:{url_sdk_plugin_http}[]

== Validator nodes

//TODO: Add link to Lisk PoS explanation, once it is available
In the Lisk xref:{url_pos}[PoS], a certain set of validators is selected by the network to add new blocks to the blockchain.
To participate in the block generation process, a validator needs to set up a node and configure it to enable block generation.
These nodes are called *validator nodes*.

Validator nodes fulfill a very important role in the network, and therefore they require certain additional configurations regarding enabling block generation and higher security measures, as compared to regular nodes.
Furthermore, they are equal to any non-validator node in the network and follow the same installation process.
To learn how to become a validator, please check out the following guide: xref:{url_validator}[How to become a validator].

In the Lisk Mainnet, exactly 103 validators exist in the network for each block generation round.
Validator nodes are the only nodes that can propose new blocks to the blockchain.

> During a block generation round, every validator node has the opportunity to generate at least one block.

Reviewer 2: I would move this paragraph above the previous paragraph.

// NOTE: Follow the guide xref:{url_run_forging}[Enable Block Generation] to learn how to enable block generation on a node for a particular validator.

////
=== Block Generation in the Testnet

Anyone can start block generation in the Lisk Testnet, thanks to the the {url_faucet}[Lisk Testnet faucet^], where users can request free Testnet LSK tokens.
The Lisk Testnet is the perfect network for users who want to test out how the block generation process works, or validators who want to test certain block generation setups before implementing them for their Mainnet validator.

IMPORTANT: The Testnet LSK do not hold any intrinsic value, as the Lisk Testnet is a network purely for testing purposes.
They can *never* be exchanged to real LSK tokens from the Lisk Mainnet.

=== Block Generation in the Mainnet

If you consider gaining an active validator position on the Lisk Mainnet, please be aware that the Lisk PoS requires to xref:{url_glossary_selfstake}[self stake] with a certain amount of your own tokens.
Therefore, a certain self-investment is required for every validator who wishes to participate in the block generation process.
////

=== Acquiring an active validator spot

> To acquire a secure validator spot for a block generation round, it is necessary for a validator to be one of the top 103 validators with the most xref:{url_glossary_validatorweight}[validator weight] in the network.

Reviewer 2: As we have a dedicated section explaining the validator weight in the docs, imho it is better to link to this section directly: `run-blockchain/staking.adoc#validator-weight`

Author: Good point...done 👍

> For further information see xref:{url_protocol_voting}[Validators, staking, and validator weight] about the staking process in the Lisk Protocol.

Reviewer 2: again, this is going to outdated content

Author: Thanks Mona, now corrected accordingly 👍

// For more information, see the guide xref:{url_run_protection_forge}[].

== Lisk Service nodes

> {url_github_lisk_service}[Lisk Service^] is a data aggregation service that connects to a particular blockchain node and aggregates the blockchain data, to provide enriched API endpoints for other applications and services that rely on data from the blockchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{url_github_lisk_service}[Lisk Service^] is a data aggregation service that connects to a particular <<rpc-enabled-nodes,RPC enabled node>> and aggregates the blockchain data, to provide enriched API endpoints for other applications and services that rely on data from the blockchain.
```

* *NPM:* xref:{url_core_setup_npm}[]
* *Binary:* xref:{url_core_setup_binary}[]
* *Snap:* xref:{url_core_setup_snap}[]
// * *Docker:* xref:{url_core_setup_docker}[]
* *Source code:* xref:{url_core_setup_source}[]

== Block generation

To enable block generation it is necessary to have a node running and a sufficient amount of LSK tokens staked to meet the minimum requirements.

> This is covered in more detail, together with the necessary conditions required, which can be found on the xref:{url_enable_block_gen}[Enable block generation page].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This topic is covered in more detail on the xref:{url_enable_block_gen}[Enable block generation page].
```

Reviewer 2: i think this sentence can be simplified

Author: Agreed...Now done 👍

> If starting to enable block generation for the first time, it is highly recommended to first check out the dedicated guide: xref:{url_validator}[How to become a validator].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When enabling block generation for the first time, it is highly recommended to first check out the dedicated guide: xref:{url_validator}[How to become a validator].
```

// TODO: Uncomment above link once account-management page is updated.

With regard to xref:{url_disable_block_gen}[disabling block generation], it should be noted that in order to completely stop block generation without being punished by the network, it is required to xref:{url_unstake}[unstake] all self-stakes for a validator, before disabling block generation on the node.

////
== Report Misbehavior plugin

The "Report Misbehavior" plugin is a useful tool that is designed to provide the node operators with the option to report any suspicious or malicious activity.
In essence, it is a mechanism that allows the reporting of any fraudulent activities/transactions, misbehavior, security issues, and possible congestion that may impede and impact the security and stability of the network.
Furthermore, once implemented it provides automatic detection of delegate misbehavior and informs the running node.

For further in-depth information and how to set up the "Report Misbehavior" plugin, please see the following guide: xref:{url_enabling_misbehavior}[Enabling report misbehavior] in this section.
////

== Staking

> Staking can be defined as the process of holding and locking up a certain amount of LSK tokens to participate and validate transactions, in order to determine who secures the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Staking can be defined as the process of holding and locking up a certain amount of LSK tokens to participate in validating transactions, in order to determine who secures the network.
```

// * *RPC WS API*: xref:{url_api_service_rpc}[]
// * *Public/Subscribe API*: xref:{url_api_service_pubsub}[]

Further guides for node operators

* xref:{url_run_logging}[Managing logs]

> * xref:{url_run_reset}[Resetting and snapshotting the blockchain]

Reviewer 2: These links were commented out because they lead to outdated content. please leave them commented out.

> // Further guides for validators

Reviewer 2: Remove/comment out link to Docker setup guide below

* *NPM:* xref:{url_core_setup_npm}[]
* *Binary:* xref:{url_core_setup_binary}[]
* *Snap:* xref:{url_core_setup_snap}[]
// * *Docker:* xref:{url_core_setup_docker}[]
* *Source code:* xref:{url_core_setup_source}[]

> == Block generation

Reviewer 2: This section has similar topic as section "Acquiring an active validator spot" so please try to merge them

Author: Agreed.. Thanks for he feedback Mona, I think it does flow better now. 👍

// For more information regarding setting up and managing your account, please refer to the following guide: xref:{url_account}[Account management].
// TODO: Uncomment above link once account-management page is updated.

With regard to xref:{url_disable_block_gen}[disabling block generation], it should be noted that in order to completely stop block generation without being punished by the network, it is required to xref:{url_unstake}[unstake] all self-stakes for a validator, before disabling block generation on the node.

== Report Misbehavior plugin

The "Report Misbehavior" plugin is a useful tool that is designed to provide the node operators with the option to report any suspicious or malicious activity.
In essence, it is a mechanism that allows the reporting of any fraudulent activities/transactions, misbehavior, security issues, and possible congestion that may impede and impact the security and stability of the network.
Furthermore, once implemented it provides automatic detection of delegate misbehavior and informs the running node.

> For further in-depth information and how to set up the "Report Misbehavior" plugin, please see the following guide: xref:{url_enabling_misbehavior}[Enabling report misbehavior] in this section.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we updated the "enabling misbehavior report plugin" guide, so please remove/comment out this section.

Author: Yes, good point Mona, the "enabling misbehavior report plugin" guide is not yet updated, so I have commented it out and left a TODO: to uncomment it when the guide is updated. 👍

In essence, it is a mechanism that allows the reporting of any fraudulent activities/transactions, misbehavior, security issues, and possible congestion that may impede and impact the security and stability of the network.
Furthermore, once implemented it provides automatic detection of delegate misbehavior and informs the running node.

For further in-depth information and how to set up the "Report Misbehavior" plugin, please see the following guide: xref:{url_enabling_misbehavior}[Enabling report misbehavior] in this section.

== Staking

Staking can be defined as the process of holding and locking up a certain amount of LSK tokens to participate and validate transactions, in order to determine who secures the network.
This can be achieved by voting with your own LSK tokens.
By performing staking it is possible to earn rewards, therefore giving the node operator the incentive to stake.
The selection of a node to validate a block, in turn, results in that node being able to earn the associated rewards, which are proportional to the amount of LSK tokens staked.

> To acquire a more in-depth overview of staking and how to earn additional LSK tokens within the Lisk network, please see the xref:{url_staking_guide}[Staking guide].

Reviewer 2: link is broken

Author: Thanks Mona, Now fixed 👍
